---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: Statement of Purpose
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2020-01-19
labels:
  - M.S. Portfolio
---
<h3>Background and Research interests</h3>
<p>As a kid, I developed an unyielding curiosity for computers. Computer science was taught as a subject in school along with LOGO and C programs. Schooling played an important role in molding myself as a person with confidence and fascinated me towards Computer Science. I consider myself lucky to have entered the same field of academics as my passion. </p>

<p>This curiosity grew each year during my undergraduate studies at BGS Institute of Technology, India. I completed my engineering securing first class with distinction and was the topper of Information and Computer Science department for six consecutive semesters. Subjects that gave me lot of interest were Object Oriented Programming with C++, Analysis and Design of Algorithms, Database Management Systems along with my electives Java and .Net Programming with C#. My ambition is to work at the forefront of the technology with the ability to find innovative solutions to the changing needs.</p>

<p>Soon after I graduated from college, I started working at Sonata Software Limited in Bangalore, India as a developer for web portal named “BOLT” that compares various insurance plans in USA and chooses the best based on individual needs. My leadership skills were demonstrated as team lead for Sonata’s Platformation initiative Fresher’s Recruitment Platform to build automated platform to hire graduate engineers. I assisted my teammates in coding, completed tasks on time and delivered the portal within set deadline. During my tenure with Sonata Software limited I gained experience on technologies like C#, ASP. Net, ASP. Net MVC, ASP. NET Web API, MS SQL Server, Couchbase, MongoDB, GitHub, Microsoft Azure, AWS S3, Kendo UI and Angular4. My work experience turned out to be extremely enriching and has sharpened my Research and Development skills.</p>

<p>My interactions during my time in Sonata Software limited made understand I need further advancement in Data Science, security and other latest technologies. To realize that target, I needed to go beyond the theoretical knowledge of this field gained through my undergraduate studies and my professional experience, and really dive into the subject. I surmised that graduate school would give me opportunities to the growth of acquiring skills in Data Science, Security, Software Engineering and help me grow further in the field of Computer Science.</p>

<p>After joining M.S. in Information and Computer Science at University of Hawaii at Manoa, I was a Teaching Assistant for Software Engineering and Introduction to Programming the Web courses in Fall 2019 and I am Teaching Assistant for Software engineering course in Spring 2020. Being Teaching Assistant, I was able to learn lot of web technologies like Semantic UI, Materialize and Meteor/React and help students.
</p>
<h3>Goals</h3>
Over my past four years i have worked on web development. In my graduate studies I am focusing towards gaining more skills and knowledge in Data Science. I am looking for opportunities to implement my knowledge and anticipate to graduate in Fall 2020.
